#summary GWT AjaxLoader API questions that are asked frequently.

= AjaxLoader API FAQs = 

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

== Where can I go to get help with using the AjaxLoader API? ==

You may post questions to the  [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-apis GWT-Google-Apis] group, which is the forum for the developers of the GWT wrappers for all Google APIs.  You can also try the [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-api Google-Web-Toolkit] group which is the main public forum for GWT. 

== Do I need a copy of this project to use AjaxLoader with the other Google APIs for GWT? ==

The projects that require the AjaxLoader classes are distributed with a .jar file that bundles
them in.  However, most projects also contain a gwt-XXX-noredist.jar distribution that does not
include the AjaxLoader or other classes.   The -noredist.jar bundles are useful when your
project already has a conflicting version of a dependency.   You may need a standalone version of gwt-ajaxloader.jar if you wish to use the -noredist.jar files.
  
== What should I do if I think I've found a bug? ==

First post your bug to the [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-api GWT-Google-Apis] group for discussion.  There may be a workaround or a patch already in place for the problem.  Bugs are logged in the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/issues/list Issue Tracker].  Please reserve the issue tracker for bugs with the API itself, and not for diagnosing problems with a particular application.
