#summary Getting Started with the GWT Google APIs

== What is the Google Web Toolkit? ==

The Google Web Tookit is a framework for developing AJAX applications.  See the Google Code home page for [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit GWT]

== What is the Google API Library for the Google Web Toolkit? ==

The gwt-google-apis project is a set of GWT wrappers for other Google APIs that provide a binding between GWT compatible Java code and the !JavaScript APIs provided by Google for !JavaScript developers.  Although often very similar, the gwt-google-apis binding often diverge from the exact syntax of the !JavaScript APIs in order to be more familiar to Java developers.

== What is the licensing for the library? ==

The project is maintained as an open source project and distributed under the Apache 2.0 license.

== Where do I find the gwt-google-apis download? ==

The home of the project is at [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis Google Code].  There you will find documentation, source code, and downloads of released versions of the library.

== How do I get support for the library? ==

Support is provided on the Google Group named [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit Google-Web-Toolkit].

== Where do I report a bug? ==

First, consult the issue tracker for the project at 
[http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis Google Code].  If you do not see the bug listed, and are not sure if you've found a bug, consult with [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit Google-Web-Toolkit].  If you are sure you've found a bug,  please file a new issue.  You can follow up with a post to the [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit-Contributors Google-Web-Toolkit-Contributors] mailing list if you like.

If you find a bug that matches the problem you describe, make sure to _star_ it by clicking on the star at the upper left of the bug.  This helps us judge how many people are affected by the problem.

== How do I contribute to the project? ==

Discussions of the development of the library itself occur on the public [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit-Contributors Google-Web-Toolkit-Contributors] Google group.

== What is the difference between this project and googlemaps/Mapitz? ==

The Google API Library for Google Web Toolkit is the official set of bindings for Google APIs maintained by Google.  Although Google does not maintain or support these alternate bindings, you are likely to find other users of those libraries on the GWT forum [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit Google-Web-Toolkit].

== How do I get started developing with the API? ==

Check out the [GettingStarted Getting Started] page on the Google Code wiki.