#summary Using Gears in a project

= Getting Started with Gears =

This section describes the basics behind writing a small project that uses the Gears Plugin API with the [http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit Google Web Toolkit] (GWT).  Before working through this guide, it would be helpful to become familiar with the [http://code.google.com/apis/gears/ Gears developer's site].

== Assumptions ==
 
This guide assumes you are already familiar with using the Google Web Toolkit.  See the [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/overview.html GWT Documentation] to learn how to create a new GWT project.  Make sure you are familiar with the  `applicationCreator` tool to help create new projects and to integrate your project with the Eclipse IDE.  

== Getting the GWT Google APIs gwt-gears library ==

You can download the latest production release of the GWT Google APIs library from the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/downloads/list project download page].  Choose the _All Downloads_ option and press the _Search_ button to see milestone releases as well as final releases.  After you download the distribution, uncompress
it.  Inside the folder you will find a .jar file named `gwt-maps.jar`. 

You can either reference the `.jar` file from the folder that you uncompressed the project in, or copy it to another location, such as the location of your GWT distribution (containing `gwt-dev-`_<machine>_`.jar` and `gwt-user.jar` files).  In this example, we've chosen to copy the file to the path `/usr/local/gwt-gears`.

  _Note: Some releases are marked 'deprecated' by the Google Code download tab, even though they are more recent than older versions.  When we create milestone versions, we mark them in this way just to keep unsuspecting users from grabbing a potentially unstable version._

== Tutorials ==
  
   * [GearsTutorialDatabase Database Tutorial]
   * [GearsTutorialLocalServer LocalServer Tutorial]
   * [GearsTutorialOffline Offline Tutorial]
   * [GearsTutorialWorkerPool WorkerPool Tutorial]