#summary Frequently Asked Questions about the GWT bindings for Gears

= Gears FAQs =

These FAQs refer to the Google API Library for GWT bindings for the Gears API.  
See also [Overview Project Overview] for general information on the Google API Libraries for GWT.

== How do I write worker thread code in GWT? ==

The bindings do not support such a way right now, but if you create a GWT module and specify the Single Script linker, you can load the generated script as a public resource using the [http://gwt-google-apis.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/gears/1.1/com/google/gwt/gears/client/workerpool/WorkerPool.html#createWorkerFromUrl(java.lang.String) WorkerPool.createWorkerFromUrl(String)] method.

== Why do the samples that use !LocalServer fail when I run them using a file:// URL? ==

This is a constraint of the Gears plugin.  Run them using the Compile/Browse from hosted mode or by copying the files to be served from a web server to run the samples locally.

== Why do the Gears samples fail in Hosted mode under Mac and Linux? ==

As of GWT 1.6, the hosted mode browsers under Mac & Linux are not compatible with the Gears plugin.  In upcoming releases of GWT, changes to hosted mode (Out of Process Hosted Mode) will allow debugging with Gears. 

== I am using GWT 1.6 and having trouble with problems parsing XML or the Xerces library ==

New features in 1.6 have included multiple versions of the Xerces library.  Try using the `gwt-gears-noredist.jar` jar file instead of `gwt-gears.jar` (new in the gwt-gears-1.2.0 release).  The `-noredist.jar` version does not include any extra library classes outside of the `com.google.gwt.gears` package.