#summary Adding Google APIs to a GWT Project

= Getting Started with the Google Web Toolkit =

This guide assumes you are already familiar with using the Google Web Toolkit.  See the [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/overview.html GWT Documentation] to learn how to create a new GWT project.  Make sure you are familir with the  `applicationCreator` tool to help create new projects and to integrate your project with the Eclipse IDE.  

= Using a library or source code =

The production version of the GWT Google APIs is distributed as a
`.jar` file that is easy to integrate with an existing GWT project.
Choose the `.jar` file library if you need a stable release of the
library and do not care to get the latest features.

The latest version of the API source code is also publicly available
from a [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] repository hosted by
[http://code.google.com/ Google Code].  Choose the source code if you
need to use the latest features and bug fixes by the library, or if
you are interested in contributing patches to the library.

== Adding Google APIs to a GWT Project as a library ==

This section describes how to integrate the `gwt-google-apis` JAR library
with an existing GWT project.

=== Getting the GWT Google APIs library ===

You can download the latest production release of the GWT Google APIs
library from the
[http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/downloads/list project
download page].  After you download the distribution, uncompress
it.  Inside the folder you will find a file named
`gwt-google-apis.jar`. This is the one file you need to integrate the
APIs with your project. 

You can either reference the `.jar` file from the folder that you
uncompressed the project in, or copy it to another location, such as
the location of your GWT distribution (containing
`gwt-dev-`_<machine>_`.jar` and `gwt-user.jar` files).  Whichever
place you choose, this documentation will refer to this path as
_GWT_GOOGLE_APIS_DIR_.

=== Creating your project ===

If you have not yet created a GWT project, create one now.  You can
use the `applicationCreator` tool, or an IDE plugin, or create a
project manually.  Essentially, you need to then add the path
_GWT_GOOGLE_APIS_DIR_`/gwt-google-apis.jar` to the Java classpath.

=== Updating <project>-compile and <project>-shell ===

=== Updating Eclipse launch configuration ===


== Adding Google APIs to a GWT Project from source ==

=== Getting the GWT Google APIs source ===

=== Updating <project>-compile and <project>-shell ===

=== Updating Eclipse launch configuration ===


