#summary Getting Started guide for using the GWT Google APIs 

= Introduction = 

The GWT Google APIs are a set of Java bindings using the 
[http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/ Google Web Toolkit] (GWT) to use 
Google services and browser extensions such as 
[http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxsearch/ Google AJAX Search API], 
[http://code.google.com/apis/maps/ Google Maps API],
[http://code.google.com/apis/gears/ Google Gears API],  and 
[http://code.google.com/apis/base/ Google Base Data API].  The GWT Google 
APIs are intended to give GWT developers easy access to the latest 
capabilities of these Google APIs without having to resort to writing lots 
of integration code using !JavaScript.


= Getting Started Tutorials =

This guide is a tutorial that demonstrates how to integrate the GWT Google APIs into your GWT projects.  The tutorials will show step by step how to setup a project and develop sample applications using the Google AJAX Search, Maps, Gears, and Base APIs.

 * [GettingStartedBasic Adding GWT Google APIs to a GWT Project] Start here to setup a GWT project.

 * [GettingStartedAJAXSearch Using Google AJAX Search in a project] A walkthrough of how to use AJAXSearch in a GWT project.

 * [GettingStartedMaps Using Google Maps in a project] A walkthrough of how to use Google Maps in a GWT project.

 * [GettingStartedGears Using Google Gears in a project] A walkthrough of how to use the Google Gears API in a GWT project.

 * [GettingStartedBase Using Google Base in a project] A walkthrough of how to use the Google Base API in a GWT project.


= Other Resources =

 * The [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/ GWT Google API project website] contains downloads, documentation, and other resources.
 * Each API has a sample project.  They are distributed along with the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/downloads/list production distribution] and are also checked into the project [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/source subversion repository.] 
 * The [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/ Google Web Toolkit] home page has resources for learning and using GWT.
 * Use the [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit Google Web Toolkit Group] as a forum for discussions about using the GWT Google APIs.
