=Google API Libraries for Google Web Toolkit=

The Google API Libraries for Google Web Toolkit is a collection of libraries that provide Java language bindings for popular Google !JavaScript APIs. These libraries make it quick and easy for developers to use these Google !JavaScript APIs with Google Web Toolkit. The libraries are supported by the Google Web Toolkit team.

==Available Libraries===
====[http://code.google.com/docreader/#p(gwt-google-apis)s(gwt-google-apis)t(GearsGettingStarted) Gears 1.0 Library]====
  [http://code.google.com/apis/gears/ Gears] is an open source project that enables more powerful web applications by adding new features to web browsers. The Gears 1.0 library is the most current production release and provides support for the Gears !LocalServer, Database, and !WorkerPool.



==Release Candidates==
Release Candidates for the following libraries are now available and ready to be taken for a test drive. Note that these versions have not yet been released for production use. 

====[http://code.google.com/docreader/#p(gwt-google-apis)s(gwt-google-apis)t(GearsGettingStarted) Gears 1.1 Library (Release Candidate)]====
  A release candidate for version 1.1 of the Gears library is now available. In addition to support for the Gears !LocalServer, Database, and !WorkerPool, this version adds.... 

====[http://code.google.com/docreader/#p(gwt-google-apis)s(gwt-google-apis)t(GadgetsGettingStarted) Gadgets 1.0 Library (Release Candidate)]====
  [http://code.google.com/apis/gadgets/ Gadgets] are simple HTML and !JavaScript applications that can be embedded in webpages and other apps. This release candidate library simplifies gadget development with GWT by automatically generating a [http://code.google.com/apis/gadgets/docs/legacy/reference.html#XML_Ref Gadget Specification] from Java source, inserting a selection script in the specification much like a regular GWT project. After compiling your gadget with GWT, all files are in place to [http://code.google.com/apis/gadgets/docs/legacy/publish.html publish] your gadget. 

====[http://code.google.com/docreader/#p(gwt-google-apis)s(gwt-google-apis)t(AJAXSearchGettingStarted) Google AJAX Search 1.0 (Release Candidate)]====
  The [http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxsearch/ Google AJAX Search API] lets you put Google Search in your web pages, including Web, Local, and Multimedia searches. This release candidate library allows you to access that API from Java code compiled with the GWT compiler. 


==Under Development==
Please see the [Downloads download page] for milestone builds of other libraries. 