#summary GWT Language API questions that are asked frequently.

= Language API FAQs = 

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

== I saw the Language API is deprecated. What is the replacement? ==

Check out the [http://www.google.com/webelements/translate Translate Element] instead.

== What Languages are supported by the Language API? ==

Check the underlying [http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxlanguage Ajax Language JavaScript API documentation] for a list of the currently supported languages.  If a new language is added to the !JavaScript API but not yet supported by the Language enumeration, please file an [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/issues/list issue].  In the interim, you can pass in the text representation of the language code. 

== Where can I go to get help with using the Language APIs? ==

You may post questions to the  [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-apis GWT-Google-Apis] group, which is the forum for the developers of the GWT wrappers for all Google APIs.  You can also try the [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-api Google-Web-Toolkit] group which is the main public forum for GWT. 
  
== What should I do if I think I've found a bug? ==

First post your bug to the [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-api GWT-Google-Apis] group for discussion.  There may be a workaround or a patch already in place for the problem.  Bugs are logged in the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/issues/list Issue Tracker].  Please reserve the issue tracker for bugs with the API itself, and not for diagnosing problems with a particular application.

== I have problems running my application from file ==

For modern browsers it's common to forbid cross-file references, which most likely is the cause of your problems. You can run `ant devmode` command to start development mode, and paste the starup URL without `?gwt.codesvr=127.0.0.1:9997` suffix into your browser (port may vary). It will make your embedded web server serve your files in a production mode.