#summary Google Maps API Library for GWT Release Notes.

= Google Maps API Library for GWT Release Notes =

==Release Notes for 1.0.0==
===Changes since r290===

   * This library requires GWT 1.5 or later and Java 1.5 or later. 
   * This library requires the use of the Google Maps API 2.89 or later. (Some features of the bindings require more recent versions of the Maps API version up to 2.113, see the Maps API developer website.) 
   * Removed Listener classes for events that were previously deprecated. Each removed class has an equivalent Handler class. 
   * Changed many classes to be subclasses of JavaScriptObject (JavaScript overlay types). This means that you can no longer use new to construct many types - you must use the factory method Type.newInstance() instead. 
   * Fixed problems initializing constants on IE6/7 in Hosted Mode. 
   * Removed MarkerManager, as Maps team is discontinuing support for it in deference to an open source version with more features. 
   * Added checks to see that the JS API was properly loaded. 
   * Added support for Polyline and Polygon drawing/editing features. 
   * Updates to JSIO to support pre-release changes to GWT 1.5 hosted mode. 
   * Added support for the Google Earth map type and retrieving the plugin instance 
   * Fixed GeocodeCache subclassing issues. 
   * Added many unit tests. 
   * Fixed many other issues noted in the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/issues/list Issue Tracker]. 
=== Known Issues ===
   * Not all features in the Maps API are supported. The Maps API is constantly evolving. 
 
----
==Release Notes for r290 (milestone release)==
=== Changes since r41 ===

   * Added many Maps API features added since 2.83 up to 2.98. 
   * Updated features now require Java 1.5 and GWT 1.5 or higher. 
   * Updated to use Java 1.5 generics, enum types, and annotations. 
   * Maps project placed in a separate tree so it can be built and distributed independently. 
   * New event handling system that models each Maps API with a single Java Event and Handler class. Existing Listener classes are now deprecated. 
   * Added unit tests for event handing. 
   * Added javadoc comments to all classes. 
   * Updated to use JSIO r83. 
   * Removed use of long values passed via JSNI and JSIO methods. 
   * Added styling and documentation to the HelloMaps sample project. 
   * Added additional features to the HelloMaps sample project, partially as a way to manually test the newly added API features. 
   * Changed API to extract constant values from the Maps API instead of hard coding constants in Java. 
   * Many issues from the issue tracker have been addressed, all marked as version 1.1_RC. 

== Release Notes for r41 (milestone release)==
===Initial release.===