#summary Frequently Asked Questions about the GWT bindings for Google Maps

= Maps FAQs =

These FAQs refer to the Google Maps Library for GWT.  See the [Overview Project Overview] for general information on the Google Maps Library for GWT.

== Where can I go for more help using the Maps API for GWT? ==

Besides this User Guide, there are three Google groups you can search and post to:

  * [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit Google-Web-Toolkit]: the forum for all users of the Google Web Toolkit.
  * [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-apis GWT-Google-Apis]: a group used by contributors to the GWT bindings for the Maps API.  Use this list for bug reports or discussion about the development of new features.
  * [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Maps-API Google Maps API]: a group used for users of the Maps JavaScript API.  Search this group to find known issues and solutions with the Maps API in general.  Be sure to read their posting guidelines before writing to the list.  There is lots of traffic to this list and in general they will point GWT users to one of the first 2 lists unless the problem can be reproduced in plain hand-written JavaScript.

== I don't see Google Maps method XXX in the API. What should I do? ==

New features are added to the Google Maps API often. The newest features of the JavaScript Maps API may not yet be present in the latest stable release of the GWT library bindings.  

First check the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/ gwt-google-apis issue tracker] to see if the method might have been added to the trunk, but not the stable release yet.  If it has, you can download the subversion source, build it with [http://ant.apache.org Apache Ant], and get an updated `gwt-maps.jar`.   Submitting a patch along with your issue is encouraged and appreciated!  See [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/makinggwtbetter.html Making GWT Better].

== What about the Mapitz and other Maps bindings? ==

The Google API Libraries for Google Web Toolkit is the official set of bindings for Google APIs maintained by Google.  Other developers have made available APIs that give an interface to the Google Maps API or other similar functionality through GWT.  Although Google does not maintain or support these alternate bindings, you are likely to find other users of those libraries on the GWT forum [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit Google-Web-Toolkit].

== How do I get the latest version of the API from Subversion? ==

Building your own gwt-maps.jar from the latest source isn't too hard.  You will
need the following software:

   * The 1.5 or 1.6 version of the [http://java.sun.com JDK]
   * The [http://ant.apache.org Apache Ant] utility (version 1.7.1 or greater) 
   * A [http://subversion.tigris.org Subversion] client.  

Once you have the above software installed, follow these steps:

   # Download the code from the subversion repository. If you are using the command line tool, use the command: `svn co http://gwt-google-apis.googlecode.com/svn/trunk trunk`
   # Download the tools directory from the Google Web Toolkit repository.  If you are using the command line tool, use the command: `svn co http://google-web-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/tools tools`
   # Set the environment variable `GWT_TOOLS` to point to the directory where you checked out the tools distribution.
   # Set the environment variable `GWT_HOME` to point to a binary distribution of GWT downloaded from the [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit GWT project site].
   # Run `ant` on the top level file.  The `gwt-maps` library will build along with the other libraries. 

The `gwt-maps.jar` file should end up under `maps/build/lib/gwt-maps.jar`.

== Why is my map showing up very small or not at all? ==

By default, the map does not have a CSS width and height set.  You must use `MapWidget.setSize()`, `MapWidget.setWidth()`, `MapWidget.setHeight()` or style with `width` and `height` CSS properties of the map widget.  

If you wish to scale to the size of the container, make sure you adjust the size of your outer containing panel or widget and use `setSize()` with a percentage.  The following example will create a map that fills the width of the browser and is 500 pixels tall:

{{{
   AbsolutePanel panel = new AbsolutePanel();
   panel.setSize("100%","500px");
   MapWidget myMap = new MapWidget();
   map.setSize("100%", "100%");
   panel.add(map);
   RootPanel.add(panel);
}}}

== I'm using localhost, why am I seeing a dialog asking for a key? ==

Passing no key to the Maps API usually works for developing on the local machine, but you may need to create a key for localhost:`<port>` at the [http://code.google.com/apis/maps/signup.html Maps developer web site.]

== Why can't I use Maps API data types in a servlet? ==

The gwt-maps API is a set of wrappers for a JavaScript API that runs in a web browser.  Unfortunately, you cannot use these APIs in server side code.
