#summary Overview of the GWT Google APIs project

= Overview =

Using Google APIs you can integrate some of Google's online services such as 
[http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxsearch/ Google AJAX Search API], 
[http://code.google.com/apis/gears/ Gears API],  and 
[http://code.google.com/apis/gadgets/ Gadgets] into third party websites.  These APIs were originally offered as !JavaScript APIs for web programmers. 

The [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/ Google Web Toolkit] (GWT) brings a new dimension to web programming by offering a way to write a web application in the Java langauge, and deploy it to the web using !JavaScript.  

The GWT Google APIs eases integrating existing Google APIs and browser extensions with an application written using GWT.   The API is a set of Java bindings, giving GWT developers easy access to the latest capabilities of Google APIs without having to resort to writing custom integration code using !JavaScript.


== Licensing ==

The Google APIs for Google Web Toolkit is an open source project under the Apache 2.0 license.

Except as otherwise [http://code.google.com/policies.html#restrictions noted], the documentation linked to above, including the class reference, is licensed under a [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/ Creative Commons] license, and examples are licensed under an [http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Apache license].


== Downloads ==

The home of the project is at [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis Google Code].  There you will find documentation, source code, and downloads of released versions of the library.

If you are interested in milestone builds that might be more recent than the latest official release, be sure to select the _All Downloads_ option and press the _Search_ button for more download options.

== Support ==

Support is provided on the Google Group named [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit Google-Web-Toolkit].

== Reporting Bugs ==

First, consult the issue tracker for the project at 
[http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis Google Code].  If you do not see the bug listed, and are not sure if you've found a bug, consult with [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit Google-Web-Toolkit].  If you are sure you've found a bug,  please file a new issue.  You can follow up with a post to the [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit-Contributors Google-Web-Toolkit-Contributors] mailing list if you like.

If you find a bug that matches the problem you describe, make sure to _star_ it by clicking on the star at the upper left of the bug.  This helps us judge how many people are affected by the problem.

== Contributing  to the project ==

Discussions of the development of the library itself occur on the public [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit-Contributors Google-Web-Toolkit-Contributors] Google group.  Be sure to read [MakingGALGWTBetter Making Google API Library for GWT Better].
