#summary GWT Visualization questions that are asked frequently.  Very frequently.

= Visualization FAQs = 


== Where can I go to get help with using the Visualization APIs? ==

For general questions about the Visualization API for GWT, first try the 
[http://groups.google.com/group/google-visualization-api Google Visualization API] Google group.  Make sure to mention that you are using the GWT wrappers for the project.  Be sure to check out the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/wiki/VisualizationFAQ Visualization API FAQ] for general Visualization API questions.

Another place you can to for help is the [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-apis GWT-Google-Apis] group, which is the forum for the developers of the GWT wrappers for all Google APIs.  You can also try the [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-api Google-Web-Toolkit] group which is the main public forum for GWT. 
  
== What should I do if I think I've found a bug? ==

First post your bug to the [http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-google-api GWT-Google-Apis] group for discussion.  There may be a workaround or a patch already in place for the problem.  Bugs are logged in the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/issues/list Issue Tracker].  Please reserve the issue tracker for bugs with the API itself, and not for diagnosing problems with a particular application.

== Why do I see the dialog "Password needed" when extracting the .zip distribution in Windows? ==

There are some files created by the GWT compiler that are very long and cause issues with the built-in Windows compressed folder support.  You can try using a different program to unzip the folder (such as Cygwin or 7-zip), or you can use the `.tar.gz` distribution.

== Why can't I run the samples from the distribution? ==

If you are on Windows, you may be hitting a path length problem.  Try unpacking the distribution with a third-party unzip program.   Also, try putting it in a folder with a short name off of the root of a drive.

If you are having trouble running the sample scripts XXX-shell.com and XXX-compile.cmd,  make sure you have the GWT_HOME environment variable set.  It should contain a pathname that contains a uncompressed GWT distribution.

== Why do I get an exception saying that $wnd.google.visualization "is null" or "has no properties"? ==

  _See [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/issues/detail?id=271 Issue 217] for an unresolved issue surrounding running in Linux hosted mode_
 
The following stack trace indicates that the Visualization JavaScript API is not getting loaded:

{{{
[ERROR] Unable to load module entry point class
com.example.myviz.client.MyViz (see associated exception for
details)
com.google.gwt.core.client.JavaScriptException: (TypeError):
'$wnd.google.visualization' is null or not an object
 number: -2146823281
 description: '$wnd.google.visualization' is null or not an object
        at com.google.gwt.visualization.client.visualizations.Table.createJso
(Native Method) 
...
}}}

Make sure your hosted HTML page includes a `<script>` tag to load the Ajax Loader.  

{{{
    <script type="text/javascript" src="http://www.google.com/jsapi"></script>
}}}

You can then add !JavaScript code to load the visualizations yourself, or you can use the !AjaxLoader class provided with the gwt-visualization API.  See the [VisualizationGettingStarted Getting Started] page for an example.

If you have this tag in place, try opening up your web browser (IE on Windows, Safari on Mac) and navigate to the url `http://www.google.com/jsapi` manually.  If you do not see a page of JavaScript, chances are that there is some proxy or firewall setting blocking access to download the API.

== How can I get the Visualization Widgets working under Linux? ==

Answer from a [http://groups.google.com/group/google-visualization-api/browse_thread/thread/c23870b13c1b0c62 Google Visualization API Group] thread:

In Ubuntu (up to 9.04) I could get the timeline working with the following:

  * GWT uses Mozilla 1.7 as hosted mode browser with its own plugins.  Flash player 10 does not work reliable with this old browser therefore grab flash 9 from http://www.adobe.com/go/tn_14266.

 * Copy the libflashplugin.so from the archive to /opt/gwt/mozilla-1.7.12/plugins (or whereever you have gwt installed) and restart the hosted mode browser


== I removed a !VisualizationWidget from a Panel.  When I added it back, it was gone!  What happened? ==

GWT developers are used to working with widgets while they are detached from the DOM.  Attaching and detaching the widgets affects how and where they appear, but not the widgets themselves.  However, many of the visualizations provided by the Google Visualization API do not support this pattern.  (Currently, this applies to the !AreaChart, !BarChart, !ColumnChart, !LineChart, !PieChart, and !ScatterChart.)  Thus, these visualizations should be added to a panel once and not removed until they are no longer needed.

== I called `setSelection()` on a visualization before adding it to a Panel.  Why didn't it work? ==

Some methods of some visualizations only work properly when the visualization is attached to the DOM.  See the answer to the previous question.

== What happened to com.google.gwt.visualization.client.AjaxLoader?  After upgrading it is gone! ==

In release gwt-visualization-1.0.2, The AjaxLoader class was moved to a common package to be shared with other APIs.  You can access the same functionality by using the com.google.gwt.visualization.client.VisualizationUtils class.  In the future, we will deprecate classes before removing them.

== Can I combine the Visualization API and Gears to create an offline visualization application? ==

No.  See [http://code.google.com/apis/visualization/faq.html#offline the Visualization API FAQ].

== Can I use the Visualization API for GWT in a plain Java application without using GWT? ==

No.  The gwt-visualization library merely wraps a set of JavaScript APIs and is dependent on the underlying browse, flash plugin, and uses the network to communicate with Google's servers.